Sprint 2 ------>

User accounts:
username: beary@jhu.edu 
password: beary

username:jessy@jhu.edu
Password: password

Username: john@jhu.edu
Password: password

Username: madhu@jhu.edu
Password: madhu

For sprint 2, we added the ability for a user to delete their pending ride. We added a confirmation message before they delete for error prevention on the user end. If a user cancels their pending ride 24 hours before or earlier than their preferred leaving time then the code will reoptimize all the groups so that the other users can still save as much money as possible on their ubers. If the user cancels the ride within the 24 hours before their leaving time then the ride shares are not reoptimized and the group loses one person from their group. We also added a confirmation page that reviews all the information that a user put into the add new ride sequence so that the user can check that all their information is correct before submitting the ride request. We also updated the pending rides page into a sectioned recycler view so that it groups the rides based on whether they are past or upcoming rides. The pending rides are also sorted and presented so that the most recent and upcoming rides are at the top. We also added the feature to enter the date in the scheduled rides page so that the user can easily filter through their rides without having to scroll. We also decided to make it so that a user can only see the share rides they are a part of and not all the existing share ride groups in the database. We also added input restrictions so that users cannot input new rides in past dates and only to future dates. This ensures that the share rides are finalized 24 hours before the time they want to leave. We also added a feature to message the other people within your ride share group so the users can communicate their exact locations and whether they are running a little late. This was built using Firebase. We still need to improve the stylistic design of the chatroom. We also included a notifications feature that we created using Firebase. At the moment we are still sending notifications manually and we still have to integrate notifications within messages. We also decided to add some color to the nav drawer since it was completely white before. We made the top portion have a have a blue and green gradient background but kept the rest of it white to keep the simplicity. We also reduced the amount of things in the nav drawer to log out, scheduled rides, pending rides, and add new ride so that it was simple and the user can’t get lost and stay focused on the main features of the app. We also changed the animations so that it was less abrupt. The card view animation was changed into a smooth fade. The backend algorithm checks to make sure that all the user’s luggage can fit into the uber or uberXL if needed. The main priority was to check that the user did not miss their flight so we made sure the user left early enough. We made sure the user never had to walk further than they wanted to. The user information, rides, and preferences are all stored in the Postgres user database. The optimization algorithm of the ride share groups is done on the Uniporter compute server separate from other processing. 

_________________________________________________________________________________

SPRINT 1 ----> 
README: As a part of Sprint 1 in terms of back end, we first created a Postgres Database to store the following: User accounts, User past preference inputs for their rides, User past share rides. We integrated Postgres with Django and Django Rest Framework to create API-endpoints. We also set up serializers, view-sets, and migration models for the following, and use the Django ORM to map these nested data points to Postgres RDBMS.:Users, Preferences, Tags, Rides and set up authentication and correct association between them. Our servers were linked to the app backend with API’s (RetrofitClientRides, RetrofitClientSharerides, RetrofitClientUser) 

In terms of front end, we created the main landing page, the register page, the log-in page, and pages to add a new ride. We have made it so that once you log-in once, you are always logged into the app. Once you are on the main landing page, you can open click on the hamburger to open the nav drawer. From there we have included three options: “New Ride”, “Pending Rides”, and “Log out”. You can add a new ride by clicking on “New Ride”. This will take you to the first page in a sequence of pages (you can see what part of the step you are on based on the circles at the bottom). There is the flight information page where you can put in your airline (from a spinner with all airlines at BWI) and the flight number and we will make an API call to get the date information and time of the flight. If we can't find it or you would rather prefer, you can enter the flight time manually (this will be done in the second sprint since we were not able to get the right format). The second page ask where you live on campus. This spinner drops down to show a list of all the common residences on campus. We took out the option for them to manually enter an address since it would involve a lot of working converting the address to GPS coordinates we use to calculate the optimal meeting location. The third page takes you to where you can customize how much you are willing to walk to meet with your group. The fourth page is for how much luggage you are bringing. Since we cannot account for every type of large luggage we made a spinner that will enable the user to give us an approximate size of the special item based on a scale we created and explained in a short paragraph. The last page is how early the user is willing to leave (in hours) before their flight. We added an x button in the corner of every page to exit the add a ride process. In the second sprint we want to add a pop-up that tells the user that they will lose the data they have entered up to this point. We have a final confirmation page after which their request is submitted and all the information is sent to the database backend. 


Some sample users and passwords for testing purposes:
Username: madhu@jhu.edu, password: madhu
Username: lilian@jhu.edu, password: heehee
Username: tyang28@jhu.edu, password: R35YVR9S!